.\" Man page for docsentinel
.\" Generated based on docsentinel v0.1.0 CLI
.TH DOCSENTINEL 1 "January 2026" "docsentinel 0.1.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
docsentinel \- Local-first documentation drift detection and fixing tool

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B docsentinel
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B docsentinel
detects when documentation no longer matches code, explains why, and optionally proposes fixes using a locally-run or user-supplied LLM.

DocSentinel answers one question reliably: Which parts of my documentation are now inconsistent with the code, and why?

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-path " " \fIPATH\fR
Path to the repository (defaults to current directory)
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Output format: \fBtext\fR or \fBjson\fR (default: text)
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help information
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version information

.SH COMMANDS

.SS init
Initialize DocSentinel in a repository.

.B docsentinel init
[\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-force\fR] [\fB\-\-no-scan\fR]

Creates a \fB.docsentinel\fR directory with SQLite database and configuration file.

.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Force re-initialization
.TP
.B \-\-no-scan
Skip initial scan

.SS scan
Scan the repository for documentation drift.

.B docsentinel scan
[\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-full\fR] [\fB\-\-range\fR \fIRANGE\fR] [\fB\-u\fR|\fB\-\-uncommitted\fR] [\fB\-\-with-llm\fR]

.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-full
Scan all files, not just changed ones
.TP
.BR \-\-range " " \fIRANGE\fR
Commit range to scan (e.g., "HEAD~5..HEAD")
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-uncommitted
Include uncommitted changes
.TP
.B \-\-with-llm
Use LLM for analysis

.SS status
Show detected drift issues.

.B docsentinel status
[\fB\-a\fR|\fB\-\-all\fR] [\fB\-\-severity\fR \fILEVEL\fR] [\fB\-d\fR|\fB\-\-detailed\fR]

.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
Show all issues including resolved
.TP
.BR \-\-severity " " \fILEVEL\fR
Filter by severity (low, medium, high, critical)
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-detailed
Show detailed information

.SS tui
Launch the interactive terminal user interface.

.B docsentinel tui
[\fB\-\-no-mouse\fR]

Provides a dashboard with repository statistics, issue list, and fix editor.

.SS fix
Apply a suggested fix to a drift issue.

.B docsentinel fix
\fIISSUE_ID\fR [\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-\-yes\fR] [\fB\-\-content\fR \fITEXT\fR] [\fB\-\-commit\fR]

.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip confirmation
.TP
.BR \-\-content " " \fITEXT\fR
Custom fix content
.TP
.B \-\-commit
Commit the fix automatically

.SS ignore
Ignore a drift issue.

.B docsentinel ignore
\fIISSUE_ID\fR [\fB\-\-reason\fR \fITEXT\fR] [\fB\-\-permanent\fR]

.TP
.BR \-\-reason " " \fITEXT\fR
Reason for ignoring
.TP
.B \-\-permanent
Make ignore permanent

.SS hooks
Install or manage git hooks.

.B docsentinel hooks
[\fB\-\-install\fR] [\fB\-\-uninstall\fR] [\fB\-\-status\fR]

.SS watch
Watch for changes and scan automatically.

.B docsentinel watch
[\fB\-\-debounce\fR \fIMS\fR] [\fB\-\-background\fR]

.TP
.BR \-\-debounce " " \fIMS\fR
Debounce time in milliseconds
.TP
.B \-\-background
Run in background

.SS config
Show or modify configuration.

.B docsentinel config
[\fB\-\-show\fR] [\fB\-\-set\fR \fIKEY=VALUE\fR] [\fB\-\-get\fR \fIKEY\fR] [\fB\-\-reset\fR]

.SS analyze
Analyze a specific file or symbol.

.B docsentinel analyze
\fITARGET\fR [\fB\-\-docs\fR] [\fB\-\-similarity\fR]

.TP
.B \-\-docs
Show related documentation
.TP
.B \-\-similarity
Show similarity scores

.SH FILES
.TP
.B .docsentinel/config.toml
Repository-specific configuration
.TP
.B .docsentinel/docsentinel.db
SQLite database storing chunks and drift events

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Initialize in current directory:
.B docsentinel init
.TP
Scan for drift:
.B docsentinel scan
.TP
Full scan with LLM analysis:
.B docsentinel scan --full --with-llm
.TP
View all issues:
.B docsentinel status --all
.TP
Analyze a specific file:
.B docsentinel analyze src/main.rs --docs
.TP
Launch TUI:
.B docsentinel tui

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
General error
.TP
.B 2
Command line usage error

.SH SUPPORTED LANGUAGES
.IP \(bu 2
Rust (.rs)
.IP \(bu 2
Python (.py)

.SH AUTHOR
DocSentinel Contributors

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/docsentinel/docsentinel/issues

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1),
.BR cargo (1)

.SH NOTES
This project uses DocSentinel to document itself (dogfooding).
The documentation in this repository is verified by DocSentinel.
